# Roast Turkey
a:

> IN OPEN PAN: Place turkey on rack in roasting pan breast side down. Do not cover pan or add water. Cover turkey loosely with foil, then press foil tightly at ends of drumsticks and neck; do not let foil touch top or sides of bird. Turn bird breast side up when about 2/3 done and lay a cloth moistened with melted butter over the breast; lay foil loosely over turkey. If thermometer is used, insert it now. Cut tie if drumsticks are tied and insert thermometer into thickest part of inside thigh muscle. Do not touch bone. Continue roasting. (See tests for doneness and roasting guide, below).
> IN FOIL: This is a good way to cook large turkeys, 16 to 20 lbs.; smaller birds cook well this way too. The high temperature shortens cooking time. Season thawed, prepared turkey with salt, pepper, and accent in cavity before adding dressing. Shake dressing down, but do not pack. Close opening. Grease breast and legs. Place turkey breast side up in center of wide, heavy foil that's at least 12 longer than the bird; put two widths together with drug-store fold for big bird, and press to make a leakproof seal. Bring one end of foil up over the turkey; then bring up other end, lapping it over first end by 2 to 3 inches. Fold tightly. Fold foil down snugly over greased breast and legs. Press remaining sides up to hold drippings. Package will not be air tight. Place wrapped turkey in shallow pan, with or without rack. Roast in very hot oven (450 degrees.) Remove pan from oven 30 to 40 minutes before turkey should be done (see roasting guide). Open foil and fold away from turkey to edge of pan. Insert meat thermometer, if you use one. Return to oven until done, leave bird uncovered for the last 20 minutes to to brown.
> TESTS FOR DONENESS: (1) Always make the pinch test; Protecting your thumb and forefinger with paper or cloth, pinch thickest part of drumstick. Turkey is done if meat feels soft. (2) Turkey should be done when thermometer reads 185 to 195 degrees.
> DO NOT FREEZE AN UNCOOKED STUFFED TURKEY OR A COOKED STUFFED TURKEY.
> These suggestions, taken from various good cooks, have proved successful for me.
> The best turkey I ever ate was cooked to that perfection by accident, many years ago. Planning to use the slow method of roasting, and allowing 10 to 12 hours cooking time, I put the turkey in the oven at 11:00 pm, the night before Thanksgiving Day. About 4:30 am. I awakened to smell the delicious aroma of roast turkey, and hastened to check on it. To my surprise, I discovered the oven thermostat was not working and the oven heat was as high as it would go. Taking the turkey out, I was amazed to find it beautifully browned and cooked through. By this time, Fred got up to see what was going on, and as you might guess, couldn‘t resist cutting off a couple of slices, which the two of us enjoyed along with a helping of dressing. Fred called it a Thanksgiving dinner preview, and said it was the best turkey he had ever eaten. I agreed with him. Anyway, we were appropriately dressed for the occasion.
> EDITORS NOTE: My favorite way to cook a turkey is using Reynolds Oven Bags. These are plastic bags big enough to hold a huge turkey, but can be tied small enough to hold a small turkey or chicken. Directions for preparing the bird, and the bags, are included in the package. The bag facilitates faster cooking and much easier clean up. Also, the turkey browns itself and the bag keeps the turkey from drying out during cooking. Liquid from the turkey is captured by the bag and can be used in the gravy. I recommend this method. Your favorite recipes for dressing and seasonings are not changed.
