# Sauerkraut
a:

> Choose firm mature heads of cabbage and make certain it is clean. Cut into halves or quarters and remove the core. Cut the cabbage into thin shreds. Thoroughly mix 3 T of salt (not iodized) with 5 lbs shredded cabbage. Allow to stand and wilt slightly. This enables packing without breaking or bruising of the shreds.
> Pack the salted cabbage firmly and evenly'into a large clean crock or jar. After each 5 lbs cabbage, use wooden masher and press down firmly until juice comes to the surface. Repeat the shredding, salting and packing until crock is filled within 3 or 4 inches of the top. Cover the cabbage with a thin white cloth and tuck the edges down against the inside of the container. Cover with a plate or a round waxed board that fits the inside of the container so that the cabbage is not exposed to the air. Put a weight on top of the cover so the brine comes to the cover, but not over it. A glass jar filled with water makes a good weight. Rinse cloth and board every few days, removing any scum that might develop.
> A newer method of covering cabbage during fermentation consists of placing a plastic bag filled with water on top of the fermenting cabbage. The water-filled bag seals the surface from exposure to air, and prevents the growth of film yeast or molds. It also serves as a weight. For extra protection, the bag with the water in it can be placed inside another plastic bag. Any bag used should be of heavyweight, watertight plastic and intended for use with foods. The amount of water in the plastic bag can be adjusted to give just enough pressure to keep the fermenting cabbage covered with brine.
> Formation of gas bubbles indicates fermentation is taking place. A room temperature of 68 to 72 degrees is best for fermenting cabbage. Fermentation is usually completed in 5 to 6 weeks.
> TO STORE: Heat sauerkraut to simmering (185 to 210 degrees.) Do not boil. Pack hot sauerkraut into clean, hot jars and cover with hot juice to 1/2 inch of top of jar. Process in boiling water bath, 20 minutes for pints, and 25 minutes for quarts. (This for 5000 ft altitude.) Sea level is 15 minutes processing time. Add 1 minute for each 1000 feet additional altitude). Count processing time when water begins to boil. Remove jars and complete seals if necessary. Set jars upright, several inches apart to cool. Store in cool dark place.
> Fred always added the salt when we made sauerkraut, sprinkling a handful over pressed down cabbage, not measured or weighed. His guess was excellent, always giving us well-cured, but not too salty kraut. The proportions given in the foregoing recipe are from the USU Extension Service. It is very good, but makes a little saltier kraut than Fred made. Because of the salt content in sauerkraut, it is advisable to use fresh pork with it. Those who have had much experience, say, long cooking sauerkraut with fresh bacon or pork shoulder pieces will insure finest flavor and texture. (Long cooking, like 3 to 4 hours). Reheating the second day is good. Many choose to heat wieners in the kraut the last 1/2 hour of cooking.
+
